---
path: "/cloud"
date: "2019-07-28"
title: "Understanding Cloud Native applications" 
tags: ['cloud', 'webapps']
excerpt: "Cloud-native applications are much more than just putting our software products into containers and moving them into the cloud, cloud-native is about how we design and architecture our apps and not where we deploy them." 
---

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*iydcxU-jss6VacBX.jpg)

From monolithic applications to Docker containers, cloud-computing technologies
have evolved significantly in the last few years, disrupting how companies build
and deploy their products over the web.

Cloud-native applications are much more than just putting our software products
into containers and moving them into the cloud, cloud-native is about how we
design and architecture our apps and not where we deploy them.

### **Cloud Native Design Principles**

M**icroservices Architecture**<br> Our entire architecture design must focus on
services; each one of them should work as a single function that’s built around
business capabilities, relying on well-defined APIs to communicate with other
services.

C**ontinuous Integration/Deployment (CI/CD)**<br> Working on single
units(microservices) makes it easier and faster for development, allowing us to
move through development, testing, and production with ease; therefore CI and CD
comes naturally as part of our cloud-native workflow.

S**erverless Infrastructure**<br> Since our microservices are being developed
and supported on the cloud, forget about provisioning and managing servers, and
take full advantage of an elastic infrastructure that’s driven by events,
dynamically growing and shrinking in response to each triggered event.

A cloud-native approach following the principles mentioned above will allow your
organization regardless of it being a startup or a large enterprise, to build
and run scalable applications with high levels of automation and fast delivery
while having systems that are resilient and measurable.

Cloud-native challenges are more about culture than engineering; there’s have
always been a stress on building static and non-distributed applications since
on the past tools and infrastructure were not available however nowadays
technologies like AWS and Google Cloud allows engineers to focus on business
value by providing out of the box solutions for the cloud.

Cover Image Photo by [Jonathan
Chng](https://unsplash.com/@jon_chng?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
